that's why as I mentioned being an
accompanying musician comping accompany
complementing it can mean there are all
different things complimenting
accompanying you if you would listen to
rhythm section for example like when Tim
Kelly Jimmy Cobb and Paul Chambers
he was here quite a bit of interplay
going on and in particular pianist
left-hand or our comping figures Philly
Joe Jones in and red garland be another
example is the many many example just
they come to mind right away as well we
was talking about there's a specific
kind of symbiotic relationship between
drums and piano that is often overlooked
and especially when guys are in their
own world so first off what it doesn't
mean is necessarily being a parent and
planky you hear him play he's like that
at that I mean you can do that but one
way of looking at it would be looking at
all the various aspects approach that
could happen at a particular time for
example if if I was playing with Molly
when he was playing short staccato
phrases I might join him in some
phrasing similar to that from from my
side of the stage and if he was playing
long chordal kind of legato phrases I
might think in terms of some types of
assemble sustain cymbal sounds to kind
of match that or I might think the
opposite if he's playing staccato I
might play something legato he's playing
something or vice versa but what he's
talking about in particular I think is
add your company someone say playing a
solo in front of you a horn player or a
singer who's scatting or whatever the
case might be that's an opportunity for
the drums and the piano to really get
into a Congress
as it relates to what's happening here
not just are they're all no we're having
fun today you're not caring about what's
happening here so there's all different
levels going on at the same time so we
take our cue from the person who's the
primary soloist at the time so both the
pianist and and the drummer may be free
to interpret the information is coming
from the soloist primarily so souls may
phrase something certainly a place where
the phrase and that gives me a big idea
or some type of formal idea it may be
tonal in the sense that he plays he's
down in the lower register of the tenor
saxophone so I might play my ride cymbal
which has a higher pitch and would lend
more clarity rather than playing the
dark cave that has just washed away and
with him flying down there and the same
thing would happen with at the piano I
would believe that he was playing down
there the pianist wouldn't get down in
the low end the piano playing something
that would sound muddy but we've kind of
in the mid to upper range and do
something that could complement that and
so we have an opportunity to have a
three-way conversation as well as a
two-way conversation and what we can get
into from the bass and drums back talk
about if you have a second used to play
a compa blues or something and
you